# Master-Thesis-Project-in-R
## Single-Cell Profiling of EGFR-Mediated Invasion and Cetuximab Response in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinomas

Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC) is a heterogeneous group of cancers that form from the epithelial lining of the upper aerodigestive tract. Despite advances in available treatment modalities, locally advanced or recurrent/metastatic HNSCC (R/M-HNSCC) still pose numerous clinical dilemmas due to their parameter kinetics of extended disease refractoriness and high aggressiveness towards conventional treatments. Among the mechanisms, EGFR-dependent local invasion emerges as a crucial mechanism for driving tumor progression and metastasis.  This study delineates the structures underlying the latter with a specific focus on 16 select functionally differentially expressed genes (fDEGs) characterized in a 3D HNSCC invasion model. This study exploited publically available single cell RNA-Seq datasets to elucidate the expression dynamics of 16 fDEGs within heterogeneous populations of malignant cells. Further, the study stratified their roles in tumor adaptation and invasion by means of the analysis of their putative association or involvement in key signaling pathways such as EGFR, MAPK, and EMT. Their clinical relevance was assessed in patient-derived xenograft models and the R/M-HNSCC cohorts treated with cetuximab in terms of progression free survival (PFS) and response to therapy. 

Overall, this study sheds light on fDEGs as molecular mediators of EGFR-driven invasion and tumor progression in HNSCC and highlights the significance of specific fDEGs in treatment response as well as intra tumor heterogeneity in HNSCC.
